INDIVIDUAL DIARY: MOUNIKA CHALLOORI
PROJECT: HTA PROJECT 8 – PROTEIN IDENTIFICATION FOR Cryo-EM.

DATE: 27-11-2017
Read the paper `Structures of human mitochondrial ribosomes in native states of assembly`.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28892042 

DATE: 29-11-2017
FIRST group meeting at scilife lab to discuss and plan about our project. General outline about the project, 
tools that are to be used in this project (hardklör for mass selection, crux/tide for database search and peptide/protein matching, 
percolator for improving matches and MODa to search for post translational modifications if any) were discussed briefly and the literature
was collected about them. Divided the tools among ourselves to study but each of us must be aware of using all the tools. Finally, we had 
a draft of our project plan, description.

DATE: 30-11-2017
Presented a short presentation about our project to our peers and teachers.

DATE: 1-12-2017 to 3-12-2017
Browsed papers about the software tools. Run online tutorial datasets.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17580982
http://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/pr500741y
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17952086
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22186716

DATE: 5-12-2017 
SECOND GROUP MEETING at scilife lab.

Dari explained about our data files format (dta files) and how they should be converted into mzML or mzXML as these formats are 
preferred while dealing with MS data. We used open MS software (the file converter) to convert our data files into mzML and mzXML
in order to run hardklör.
•	We started with running hardklör by downloading it. 
•	Initially we ran hardklör with provided configuration file which caused ‘invalid output file’ error. But, we fixed it by running 
hardklör with command line approach.
•	But now we faced ‘input file missing spectral data’ error. We dint understand the exact problem. We removed optimisation flag and 
added debugging flag.
•	Then we used GNU debugger (GDB) to solve, but it did not help. 
•	We tried using MGF format by converting dta files to MGF. We also tried to run hardklör on windows version but ended up with same error. 
•	Then we realised that Hardklör algorithm is already implemented in the Crux through Bullseye, so we decided to work with crux. 
•	We noticed that crux need MS1 and MS2 file formats as input. So, we went back to OpenMS and tried to export a MS1 file from the 
dta-file. But we failed even after multiple attempts. 
•	We assumed that the problem might be because of missing spectra files.
•	So, we contacted KI and requested for raw data. They sent us an mzML file.
•	Finally, we extracted MS1 and MS2 files using Open MS/MS file converter.

DATE: 06-12-2017 – 10-12-2017

We ran Crux bullseye on the extracted MS1 and MS2 files, ran crux tide index (which is a pre- searching tool on crux software) on FASTA
file and crux tide search (which is a search tool on crux software) using bullseye output file and crux tide- index output file. 
Then the results or the outputs from crux tide search are now ran in the percolator and got PSMs in the output file. 
Done some literature studies about the tool. At the same time, we prepared for the next presentation about our project. 

DATE: 11-12-2017

A Half-time presentation of our project was presented to other groups in the class. 

DATE: 12-12-2017

Revant installed and ran MODa software using the MS2 files that we have extracted from raw KI data by coverting them to mzXML format 
and provided us with the results data. Dari and Revant wrote a simple parser to convert these MODa output files to CSV files 
(using pandas).

DATE: 15-12-2017 to 24-12-2017

Presentation was given by the teachers regarding how the posters should be.
We had another GROUP MEETING after the lecture.
We discussed about how this data (outputs from Crux and MoDA) can be compared and analysed. A discussion about UniMod was done.  
So, after the discussion we had 2 views to analyse this data.
1.	Based on using CryoEM data.
Creating a peptide list based on their score and look for matchings / peptide-spectrum match. Planned to identify the unannotated
densities and match against the peptide candidates. Remove artifacts, look at proteins. Create a specific list of proteins, 
look at protein density separately, give a ranking and look for matchings. This procedure would be advantageous to find out most 
probable PTM in an individual protein.
2.	Based on downloading, using the uniMod data:
It is a public domain database, a copy right that permits unrestricted redistribution and modification provided that all copies, 
derivatives retain the same permissions.
The purpose is to create a comprehensive database of protein modifications for MS applications. That is, accurate and verifiable values,
derived from elemental compositions, for the mass differences introduced by all types of natural and artificial modifications. Other
important information includes any mass change, (neutral loss) that occurs during MS/MS analysis, and site specificity, (which residues 
are susceptible to modification and any constraints on the position of the modification within the protein or peptide). 
We discussed to download the uniMod data, go through it and do some literature study. We might need to write a script to run it if
downloading creates trouble. Once we have the UniMod data, we will only keep the peptides that show Post translational modifications 
(PTMs) but not remaining or any other kind of modifications. Then we will see if the PTMs in the peptides show up as unidentified 
electron densities in the CryoEM data.

CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR

DATE: 03-01-2018 to 10-01-2018

•	Unimod database was downloaded and Dari wrote a parser for converting it into CSV files. 
•	Then finally, a digestion script by Dari was ran to crossrun both the MODa output CSV files and UniMod database CSV files. 
•	The output provided a list containing MODa spectrum matched with UniMod database based on delta mass and site type. 
•	Finally, PTM matches relevant for ribosomes and supported by multiple spectra are filtered and listed out.

DATE: 11-01-2018
Group meeting at scilife lab

•	We divided our work and started to analyse the PTM list. 
•	We started searching information about PTMs online and updated the list with gathered information. 

